docs(artworld): write guide (#61)
btpworks/chronicle-examples: domains/artworld/guide.md

The agents in this model are `Collector` and `Artist`, both of whom play crucial
roles in the art world. Collectors purchase and amass collections of art, while
artists create new works of art. Both kinds of agent might well be involved in
exhibiting and selling works of art.

```graphql
mutation {
  defineCollectorAgent(
    externalId: "collector471"
    attributes: { nameAttribute: "Dmitry Rybolovlev" }
  ) {
    context
    txId
  }

  defineArtistAgent(
    externalId: "artist001"
    attributes: { nameAttribute: "Leonardo da Vinci" }
  ) {
    context
    txId
  }
}
```

```json
{
  "data": {
    "defineCollectorAgent": {
      "context": "chronicle:agent:collector471",
      "txId": "22400f32dba9bd2735ff455440f9b136bab1d53720d1be7526d3730a7711ab5a1dfef8539f7edb9a9a94c4466c03746a5d7de00acc0196175596575095f5beb3"
    },
    "defineArtistAgent": {
      "context": "chronicle:agent:artist001",
      "txId": "98252f9cebe03bfe98a5f3a8bd45bf19dfe0dad00b2aeb7b5c93ff407a9b0c4f710f40f03114730affdfb0899c290c6d1115b010554953f96c51a04b84bf11c2"
    }
  }
}
```

Finally, the model also outlines the different activities that take place within

> the artworld, including exhibiting, creating, and selling. `Exhibited` refers

Reviewer: Maybe mention creating *then* exhibiting?

price.

### Recording Associations of Artworld Agents with Artworld Activities and the Output

```graphql
mutation {
  wasAssociatedWith(
    responsible: { externalId: "artist001" }
    activity: { externalId: "salvatormundi" }
    role: CREATOR
  ) {
    context
    txId
  }
}
```

```json
{
  "data": {
    "wasAssociatedWith": {
      "context": "chronicle:agent:artist001",
      "txId": "c79317a4e7d0c685c946f6b2bebed891b862cad0d0138edc92240560d60c1dec2d9a48e99027d633b5d5b2bb19cd39d5f4eab6c60c16ee88ef7706730177c4fe"
    }
  }
}
```

```graphql
mutation {
  wasAssociatedWith(
    responsible: { externalId: "collector471" }
    activity: { externalId: "saleofsalvatormundi" }
    role: SELLER
  ) {
    context
    txId
  }
}
```

```json
{
  "data": {
    "wasAssociatedWith": {
      "context": "chronicle:agent:collector471",
      "txId": "c15682f289153b1726b53be678081168dd6900051d8e32387633367403c512560ef4ace45f7c9991c83d8a27158b41d3f32d3ffd0cbbb84c60d10c49abbf9622"
    }
  }
}
```

This is only one example, but in this way a comprehensive record of the artworld
can be built, tracking the actions and movements of each agent and entity. This

> record not only provides a historical record of the artworld, but it also has the

Reviewer: I wonder if we can get an adjective like "indisputable" or somesuch into this paragraph, to highlight our value proposition.

        {
          "responsible": {
            "role": "SELLER",
            "agent": {
              "nameAttribute": "Dmitry Rybolovlev",
              "externalId": "collector471"
            }
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

```graphql
query {
  activitiesByType(activityType: SoldActivity) {
    nodes {
      ... on SoldActivity {
        purchaseValueAttribute
        purchaseValueCurrencyAttribute
        wasAssociatedWith {
          responsible {
            role
            agent {
              ... on CollectorAgent {
                externalId
                nameAttribute
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

```json
{
  "data": {
    "activitiesByType": {
      "nodes": [
        {
          "purchaseValueAttribute": "450000000",
          "purchaseValueCurrencyAttribute": "USD",
          "wasAssociatedWith": [
            {
              "responsible": {
                "role": "SELLER",
                "agent": {
                  "externalId": "collector471",
                  "nameAttribute": "Dmitry Rybolovlev"
                }
              }
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

> These and many more queries can be made possible by the rich data to be recorded

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These and many more queries are made possible by the rich data that can be recorded
```
(just an idea)

about the artworld, including the names and roles of the different agents and
entities, as well as the details of each activity that has taken place. With this

> data at hand, it is possible to gain a deep understanding of the artworld, and to

Reviewer: Again, here I'd love to get something in that is particular to that Chronicle is backed by blockchain,
```suggestion
trustworthy data at hand, it is possible to gain a deep understanding of the artworld, and to
```
... I'm not quite satisfied with that so very open to your thoughts! I was aiming for something like, you can trust us not to fiddle with it after the fact because it's like the law of the Medes and the Persians (with some adjective that has positive associations).

Author: > Again, here I'd love to get something in that is particular to that Chronicle is backed by blockchain,
> 
> ... I'm not quite satisfied with that so very open to your thoughts! I was aiming for something like, you can trust us not to fiddle with it after the fact because it's like the law of the Medes and the Persians (with some adjective that has positive associations).

Love it.

be able to confidently verify the value and authenticity of individual pieces,
ultimately enhancing trust in the art market.

![Recording the Artworld](/docs/diagrams/out/recording_the_artworld.svg)

## Querying the Artworld

With a comprehensive record of the artworld in place, it is now possible to query
this record and gain insights into the industry. For example, one could query the
record to determine the average sale price of artworks created by a particular
artist, or to see which artists are exhibiting their works in a particular location.

### Querying the Associations of the Sale of an Artwork and the Output

```graphql
query {
  activityById(id: {externalId: "saleofsalvatormundi"}) {
    ...on SoldActivity {
      wasAssociatedWith {
        responsible {
          role
          agent {
            ...on CollectorAgent {
              nameAttribute
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

```json
{
  "data": {
    "activityById": {
      "wasAssociatedWith": [
        {
          "responsible": {
            "role": "SELLER",
            "agent": {
              "nameAttribute": "Dmitry Rybolovlev",

>               "externalId": "collector471"

Reviewer: but we didn't query it?

Author: Yeah, we queried `SoldActivity` and association to it.

Author: And we queried a specific sale and association to it.

Reviewer: I'm confused. The query just has,
```

￼            ...on CollectorAgent {
￼              nameAttribute
￼            }
```
Why did the `externalId` also appear?

Author: Ah, I get what you're pointing at now. Fixed. Thanks!
